Add components section (#14415)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/blazor-for-web-forms-developers/components.md

`@implements` | Implement the specified interface. | `@implements IDisposable` | Use code-behind
`@inherits` | Inherit from the specified base class. | `@inherits MyComponentBase` | `<%@ Control Inherits="MyUserControlBase" %>`
`@inject` | Inject a service into the component. | `@inject IJSRuntime JS` | None
`@layout` | Specify a layout component for the component. | `@layout MainLayout` | `<%@ Page MasterPageFile="~/Site.Master" %>`
`@namespace` | Sets the namespace for the component. | `@namespace MyNamespace` | None
`@page` | Specifies the route for the component. | `@page /product/{id}` | `<%@ Page %>`
`@typeparam` | Specifies a generic type parameter for the component. | `@typeparam TItem` | Use code-behind
`@using` | Adds a using statement for the specified namespace. | `@using MyComponentNamespace` | Add namespace in *web.config*

Razor components also make extensive use of *directive attributes* on elements to control various aspects of how components get compiled (event handling, data binding, component & element references, etc.). Directive attributes all follow a common generic syntax where the values in parenthesis are optional:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```razor
```

Syntax | .aspx | Example | .razor | Example
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Directives | `<%@ [directive] %>` | `<%@ Page %>` | `@[directive]` | `@page`
Code blocks | `<% %>` | `<% int x = 123; %>`  | `@{ }` | `@{ int x = 123; }`
Expressions<br>(HTML encoded) | `<%: %>` | `<%:DateTime.Now %>` | Implicit: `@`<br>Explicit: `@()` | `@DateTime.Now`<br>`@(DateTime.Now)`
Comments | `<%-- --%>` | `<%-- Commented --%>` | `@* *@` | `@* Commented *@`
Data binding | `<%# %>` | `<%# Bind("Name") %>` | `@bind` | `<input @bind="username" />`

To add members to the Razor component class use the `@code` directive. This is similar to using a `<script runat="server">...</script>` block in an ASP.NET Web Forms user control or page.

```razor
@code {
    int count = 0;

    void IncrementCount() 
    {
        count++;
    }
}
```

Note that because Razor is based on C#, it must be compiled from within a C# project (*.csproj*). You cannot compile *.razor* files from a VB project (*.vbproj*). You can still reference VB projects from your Blazor project and vice versa.

> A full [Razor syntax reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/mvc/views/razor) is available in the ASP.NET Core documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full [Razor syntax reference](/aspnet/core/mvc/views/razor) is available in the ASP.NET Core documentation.
```

> ## Using components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use components
```

In addition to normal HTML, components can also use other components as part of their rendering logic. The syntax for using a component in Razor is very similar to using a user control in an ASP.NET Web Forms app. Components are specified using a element tag that matches the type name of the component. For example, you can add a `Counter` component like this:

```razor
<Counter />
```

> Unlike ASP.NET Web Forms, components in Blazor don't have an element prefix (e.g. "asp:") and they don't need to be registered on the page or in *web.config*. You can think of Razor components like you would .NET types, because that's exactly what they are. If the assembly containing the component is referenced, then the component is available to be used. To bring the component's namespace into scope, you use the `@using` directive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike ASP.NET Web Forms, components in Blazor don't have an element prefix (for example, "asp:") and they don't need to be registered on the page or in *web.config*. You can think of Razor components like you would of .NET types, because that's exactly what they are. If the assembly containing the component is referenced, then the component is available to be used. To bring the component's namespace into scope, you use the `@using` directive.
```

```razor
@using MyComponentLib

<Counter />
```

> As we saw in the default Blazor projects, it's common to put `@using` directives into a *_Imports.razor* file so that they get imported into all *.razor* files in the same directory and in child directories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As seen in the default Blazor projects, it's common to put `@using` directives into a *_Imports.razor* file so that they get imported into all *.razor* files in the same directory and in child directories.
```

> If the namespace for a component is not in scope, you can specify a component using its full type name, just like you can in C#.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the namespace for a component isn't in scope, you can specify a component using its full type name, just like you can in C#.
```

```razor
<MyComponentLib.Counter />
```

## Component parameters

In ASP.NET Web Forms, you can flow parameters and data to controls using public properties. These properties can be set in markup using attributes or set directly in code. Blazor components work in a very similar fashion, although the component properties must also be marked with the `[Parameter]` attribute to be considered component parameters.

> The following `Counter` component defines a component parameter called `IncrementAmount` that can be used to specify the amount that the should be incremented each time the button is clicked.

Reviewer 2: that the counter should?

> The following `Counter` component defines a component parameter called `IncrementAmount` that can be used to specify the amount that the should be incremented each time the button is clicked.

Author: ```suggestion
The following `Counter` component defines a component parameter called `IncrementAmount` that can be used to specify the amount that the `Counter` should be incremented each time the button is clicked.
```

```razor
<h1>Counter</h1>

<p>Current count: @currentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    int currentCount = 0;

    [Parameter]
    public int IncrementAmount { get; set; } = 1;

    void IncrementCount()
    {
        currentCount+=IncrementAmount;
    }
}
```

> To specify a component parameter in Blazor use an attribute just like you would in ASP.NET Web Forms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To specify a component parameter in Blazor, use an attribute just like you would in ASP.NET Web Forms:
```

```razor
<Counter IncrementAmount="10" />
```

## Event handlers

> Both ASP.NET Web Froms and Blazor provide an event-based programming model for handling UI events, like button clicks, text input, and the like. In ASP.NET Web Forms, you use HTML server controls to handle UI events exposed by the DOM, or you can handle events exposed by web server controls. These events are surfaced on the server through form post back request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both ASP.NET Web Forms and Blazor provide an event-based programming model for handling UI events, like button clicks, text input, and the like. In ASP.NET Web Forms, you use HTML server controls to handle UI events exposed by the DOM, or you can handle events exposed by web server controls. These events are surfaced on the server through form post back request.
```

In Blazor, you can register handlers for DOM UI events directly using directive attributes of the form `@on{event}`, where `{event}` is the name of the event. For example, you can listen for button clicks like this:

```razor
<button @onclick="OnClick">Click me!</button>

@code {
    void OnClick() 
    {
        Console.WriteLine("The button was clicked!);
    }
}
```

> Event handlers can take an optional event-specific argument to provide more information about the event. For example, mouse events can take a `MouseEventArgs` argument, but it is not required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Event handlers can take an optional event-specific argument to provide more information about the event. For example, mouse events can take a `MouseEventArgs` argument, but it isn't required.
```

```razor
<button @onclick="OnClick">Click me!</button>

@code {
    void OnClick(MouseEventArgs e) 
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Mouse clicked at {e.ScreenX}, {e.ScreenY}.");
    }
}
```

Instead of referring to a method group for an event handler, you can use lambda expressions, which allows you to close over other in-scope values.

```razor
@foreach (var buttonLabel in buttonLabels)
{
    <button @onclick="() => Console.WriteLine($"The {buttonLabel} button was clicked!")">@buttonLabel</button>
}
```

> Event handlers can be sync or async.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event handlers can execute synchronously or asynchronously.
```

```razor
<button @onclick="OnClick">Click me!</button>

@code {
    async Task OnClick() 
    {
        var result = await Http.GetAsync("api/values");
    }
}
```

> After an event is handled, the component is rendered to account for any component state changes. In the case of async event handlers, the component is rendered immediately after the handler execution complements, and then rendered *again* after the async `Task` completes. This provides an opportunity to render some appropriate UI while the async `Task` is still in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After an event is handled, the component is rendered to account for any component state changes. In the case of asynchronous event handlers, the component is rendered immediately after the handler execution completes, and then rendered *again* after the asynchronous `Task` completes. This provides an opportunity to render some appropriate UI while the asynchronous `Task` is still in progress.
```

    public async Task ShowMessage()
    {
        showMessage = true;
        message = await MessageService.GetMessageAsync();
    }
}
```

Components can also define their own events by defining a component parameter of type `EventCallback<TValue>`. Event callbacks support all the variations of DOM UI event handlers: optional args, sync or async, method groups or lambda expressions.

```razor
<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="OnClick">Click me!</button>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public EventCallback<MouseEventArgs> OnClick { get; set; }
}
```

## Data binding

Blazor provides a simple mechanism to bind data from a UI component to the component's state. This is different than the various features in ASP.NET Web Forms for binding data from different data sources to UI controls. We'll cover handling data from different data sources in the [Dealing with data](data.md) section.

To create a two-way data binding from a UI component to some the component's state use the `@bind` directive attribute. In the example below, the value of the check box is bound to the `isChecked` field.

```razor
<input type="checkbox" @bind="isChecked" />

@code {
    bool isChecked;
}
```

> When the component is rendered, the value of the checkbox will be set to the value of the `isChecked` field. When the user toggles the checkbox, the `onchange` is fired and the `isChecked` field is set to the new value. This means that the `@bind` syntax in this case is equivalent to the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the component is rendered, the value of the checkbox will be set to the value of the `isChecked` field. When the user toggles the checkbox, the `onchange` event is fired and the `isChecked` field is set to the new value. The `@bind` syntax in this case is equivalent to the following:
```

```razor
<input value="@isChecked" @onchange="(UIChangeEventArgs e) => isChecked = e.Value" />
```

To change the event used for the bind, use the `@bind:event` attribute.

```razor
<input @bind="text" @bind:event="oninput" />
<p>@text</p>

@code {
    string text;
}
```

Components can also support data binding to their parameters by defining an event callback parameter with the same name as the bindable parameter, but with the "Changed" suffix added.

*PasswordBox.razor*

```razor
Password: <input 
    value="@Password" 
    @oninput="OnPasswordChanged" 
    type="@(showPassword ? "text" : "password")" />

<label><input type="checkbox" @bind="showPassword" />Show password</label>

@code {
    private bool showPassword;

    [Parameter]
    public string Password { get; set; }

    [Parameter]
    public EventCallback<string> PasswordChanged { get; set; }

    private Task OnPasswordChanged(ChangeEventArgs e)
    {
        Password = e.Value.ToString();
        return PasswordChanged.InvokeAsync(Password);
    }
}
```

> Note that to chain a data binding to an underlying UI element you'll need to set the value and handle the event directly on the UI element instead of using the `@bind` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that to chain a data binding to an underlying UI element, you'll need to set the value and handle the event directly on the UI element instead of using the `@bind` attribute.
```

To bind to a component parameter, use a `@bind-{Parameter}` attribute to specify which parameter you want to bind to.

```razor
<PasswordBox @bind-Password="password" />

@code {
    string password;
}
```

## Component lifecycle

> ASP.NET Web Forms has well-defined lifecycle methods for modules, pages, and controls. Blazor components also have a well defined lifecycle that can be used to initialize component state and implement advanced component behaviors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Web Forms has well-defined lifecycle methods for modules, pages, and controls. Blazor components also have a well-defined lifecycle that can be used to initialize component state and implement advanced component behaviors. 
```

> All of Blazor component lifecycle methods have both sync and async versions. This is important, because component rendering is synchronous. You cannot run async logic as part of the component rendering. All async logic must happen as part of an async lifecycle method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of Blazor's component lifecycle methods have both synchronous and asynchronous versions. This is important because component rendering is synchronous. You can't run asynchronous logic as part of the component rendering. All asynchronous logic must execute as part of an `async` lifecycle method.
```

### OnInitialized

> The `OnInitialized` and `OnInitializedAsync` methods are used to initialize the component. A component is typically initialized after it is first rendered. After a component is initialized it may be rendered multiple types before it is eventually disposed. The `OnInitialized` method is very similar to the `Page_Load` event in ASP.NET Web Forms pages and controls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `OnInitialized` and `OnInitializedAsync` methods are used to initialize the component. A component is typically initialized after it is first rendered. After a component is initialized, it may be rendered multiple types before it is eventually disposed. The `OnInitialized` method is very similar to the `Page_Load` event in ASP.NET Web Forms pages and controls.
```

```
protected override void OnInitialized() { ... }
protected override Task OnInitializedAsync() { ... }
```

### OnParametersSet

The `OnParametersSet` and `OnParametersSetAsync` methods are called when a component has received parameters from its parent and the value are assigned to properties. These methods are executed after component initialization and *each time the component is rendered*.

```
protected override void OnParametersSet() { ... }
protected override async Task OnParametersSetAsync() { ...}
```

### OnAfterRender

The `OnAfterRender` and `OnAfterRenderAsync` methods are called after a component has finished rendering. Element and component references are populated at this point (more on these below). Interactivity with the browser is enabled at this point including interacting with the DOM and support for executing JavaScript. 

`OnAfterRender` and `OnAfterRenderAsync` *are not called when prerendering on the server.*

> The `firstRender` parameter is will be `true` the first time the component is rendered, and `false` otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `firstRender` parameter is `true` the first time the component is rendered; otherwise, it's `false`.
```

### IDisposable

> Blazor components can implement `IDisposable` to dispose of resources when the component is removed from the UI. A Razor component can implementing `IDispose` using the `@implements` directive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Blazor components can implement `IDisposable` to dispose of resources when the component is removed from the UI. A Razor component can implement `IDispose` using the `@implements` directive.
```

```razor
@using System
@implements IDisposable

...

@code {
    public void Dispose()
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

## Capture component references

> In ASP.NET Web Forms it is very common to manipulate control instances directly in code by referring to their ID. In Blazor it is also possible to capture and manipulate references to components, although it is much less common. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In ASP.NET Web Forms, it's very common to manipulate control instances directly in code by referring to their ID. In Blazor, it's also possible to capture and manipulate references to components, although it is much less common. 
```

To capture a component reference in Blazor, use the `@ref` directive attribute. The value of the attribute should match the name of a settable field with the same type as the referenced component.

```razor
<MyLoginDialog @ref="loginDialog" ... />

@code {
    MyLoginDialog loginDialog;

    void OnSomething()
    {
        loginDialog.Show();
    }
}
```

When the parent component is rendered, the field is populated with the child component instance. You can then call methods on or otherwise manipulate the component instance.

> Manipulating component state directly using component references is generally not recommended as it prevents the component from being rendered automatically at the correct times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manipulating component state directly using component references isn't generally recommended as it prevents the component from being rendered automatically at the correct times.
```

## Capture element references

> Blazor components can also capture references to element. However, unlike HTML server controls in ASP.NET Web Forms you cannot manipulate the DOM directly using an element reference in Blazor. Blazor handles most DOM interactions for you using its DOM diffing algorithm. Captured element references in Blazor are opaque. However, they can be used to pass a specific element reference in a JavaScript interop call. Learn more about [JavaScript interop](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/javascript-interop) in the Blazor documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor components can also capture references to element. Unlike HTML server controls in ASP.NET Web Forms, you can't manipulate the DOM directly using an element reference in Blazor. Blazor handles most DOM interactions for you using its DOM diffing algorithm. Captured element references in Blazor are opaque. However, they can be used to pass a specific element reference in a JavaScript interop call. Learn more about [JavaScript interop](/aspnet/core/blazor/javascript-interop) in the Blazor documentation.
```

## Templated components

> In ASP.NET Web Forms you can create *templated controls*, which are controls that enable the developer to specify a portion of the HTML used to render a container control. The mechanics of building templated server controls are somewhat involved, but they enable powerful scenarios for rendering data in a user customizable way. Examples of templated controls include `Repeater` and `DataList`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In ASP.NET Web Forms, you can create *templated controls*. Templated controls enable the developer to specify a portion of the HTML used to render a container control. The mechanics of building templated server controls are somewhat involved, but they enable powerful scenarios for rendering data in a user customizable way. Examples of templated controls include `Repeater` and `DataList`. 
```

Blazor components can also be templated by defining component parameters of type `RenderFragment` or `RenderFragment<T>`. A `RenderFragment` represents a chunk of Razor markup that can then be rendered by the component. A `RenderFragment<T>` is a chunk of Razor markup that takes a parameter that can be specified when the render fragment is rendered.

### Child content

> Blazor components can capture their child content as a `RenderFragment`, and then render that content as part of the component rendering. To capture child content, define a component parameter of type `RenderFragment` and named `ChildContent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor components can capture their child content as a `RenderFragment` and render that content as part of the component rendering. To capture child content, define a component parameter of type `RenderFragment` and name it `ChildContent`.
```

*ChildContentComponent.razor*

```razor
<h1>Component with child content</h1>

<div>@ChildContent</div>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public RenderFragment ChildContent { get; set; }
}
```

A parent component can then supply child content using normal Razor syntax.

```razor
<ChildContentComponent>
    <p>The time is @DateTime.Now</p>
</ChildContentComponent>
```

### Template parameters

A templated Blazor component can also define multiple component parameters of type `RenderFragment` or `RenderFragment<T>`. The parameter for a `RenderFragment<T>` can be specified when it is invoked. To specify a generic type parameter for a component, use the `@typeparam` Razor directive.

*SimpleListView.razor*

```razor
@typeparam TItem

@Heading

<ul>
@foreach (var item in items)
{
    <li>@ItemTemplate(item)</li>
}
</ul>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public RenderFragment Heading { get; set; }

    [Parameter]
    public RenderFragment<TItem> ItemTemplate { get; set; }

    [Parameter]
    public IEnumerable<TItem> Items { get; set; }
}
```

> When using a templated component, the template parameters can be specified using child elements that match the names of the parameters. Component arguments of type `RenderFragment<T>` passed as elements have an implicit parameter named `context`. You can change the name of this implement parameter using the `Context` attribute on the child element.  Any generic type parameters can be specified using an attribute that matches the name of the type parameter (the type parameter will be inferred if possible):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a templated component, the template parameters can be specified using child elements that match the names of the parameters. Component arguments of type `RenderFragment<T>` passed as elements have an implicit parameter named `context`. You can change the name of this implement parameter using the `Context` attribute on the child element. Any generic type parameters can be specified using an attribute that matches the name of the type parameter (the type parameter will be inferred if possible):
```

```razor
<SimpleListView Items="messages" TItem="string">
    <Heading>
        <h1>My list</h1>
    </Heading>
    <ItemTemplate Content="message">
        <p>The message is: @message</p>
    </ItemTemplate>
</SimpleListView>
```

The output of this component looks like this:

```html
<h1>My list</h1>
<ul>
    <li>The message is: message1</li>
    <li>The message is: message2</li>
<ul>
```

## Code-behind

> Blazor components are typically authored in a single *.razor* file. However, it is also possible to separate the code and markup using a code-behind file. To use a component file, add a C# file that matches the file name of the component file but with a *.cs* extension added (*Counter.razor.cs*). Use the C# file to define a base class for the component. You can name the base class anything you'd like, but it's common to name the class the same as the component class, but with a `Base` extension added (`CounterBase`). The component based class need to also derive from `ComponentBase`. Then in the Razor component file add the `@inherits` directive to specify the base class for the component (`@inherits CounterBase`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Blazor components are typically authored in a single *.razor* file. However, it is also possible to separate the code and markup using a code-behind file. To use a component file, add a C# file that matches the file name of the component file but with a *.cs* extension added (*Counter.razor.cs*). Use the C# file to define a base class for the component. You can name the base class anything you'd like, but it's common to name the class the same as the component class, but with a `Base` extension added (`CounterBase`). The component-based class need to also derive from `ComponentBase`. Then, in the Razor component file, add the `@inherits` directive to specify the base class for the component (`@inherits CounterBase`).
```

> Blazor components are typically authored in a single *.razor* file. However, it is also possible to separate the code and markup using a code-behind file. To use a component file, add a C# file that matches the file name of the component file but with a *.cs* extension added (*Counter.razor.cs*). Use the C# file to define a base class for the component. You can name the base class anything you'd like, but it's common to name the class the same as the component class, but with a `Base` extension added (`CounterBase`). The component based class need to also derive from `ComponentBase`. Then in the Razor component file add the `@inherits` directive to specify the base class for the component (`@inherits CounterBase`).

Author: ```suggestion
Blazor components are typically authored in a single *.razor* file. However, it's also possible to separate the code and markup using a code-behind file. To use a component file, add a C# file that matches the file name of the component file but with a *.cs* extension added (*Counter.razor.cs*). Use the C# file to define a base class for the component. You can name the base class anything you'd like, but it's common to name the class the same as the component class, but with a `Base` extension added (`CounterBase`). The component based class need to also derive from `ComponentBase`. Then in the Razor component file add the `@inherits` directive to specify the base class for the component (`@inherits CounterBase`).
```

> Blazor components are typically authored in a single *.razor* file. However, it is also possible to separate the code and markup using a code-behind file. To use a component file, add a C# file that matches the file name of the component file but with a *.cs* extension added (*Counter.razor.cs*). Use the C# file to define a base class for the component. You can name the base class anything you'd like, but it's common to name the class the same as the component class, but with a `Base` extension added (`CounterBase`). The component-based class need to also derive from `ComponentBase`. Then, in the Razor component file, add the `@inherits` directive to specify the base class for the component (`@inherits CounterBase`).

Author: ```suggestion
Blazor components are typically authored in a single *.razor* file. However, it's also possible to separate the code and markup using a code-behind file. To use a component file, add a C# file that matches the file name of the component file but with a *.cs* extension added (*Counter.razor.cs*). Use the C# file to define a base class for the component. You can name the base class anything you'd like, but it's common to name the class the same as the component class, but with a `Base` extension added (`CounterBase`). The component-based class need to also derive from `ComponentBase`. Then, in the Razor component file, add the `@inherits` directive to specify the base class for the component (`@inherits CounterBase`).
```

*Counter.razor*

```razor
@inherits CounterBase

<h1>Counter</h1>

<p>Current count: @currentCount</p>

<button @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>
```

*Counter.razor.cs*

```csharp
public class CounterBase : ComponentBase 
{
    protected int currentCount = 0;

    protected void IncrementCount()
    {
        currentCount++;
    }
}
```

> Note that the visiblity of the components members in the base class must be `protected` or `public` to be visible to the component class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the visibility of the components members in the base class must be `protected` or `public` to be visible to the component class.
```

## Additional resources

> This is not an exhaustive treatment of all aspects of Blazor components. For more details on how to [Create and use ASP.NET Core Razor components](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/components) please refer to the Blazor documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is not an exhaustive treatment of all aspects of Blazor components. For more information on how to [Create and use ASP.NET Core Razor components](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/components), see the Blazor documentation.
```

```razor
<button @onclick="Get message">Get message</button>

@if (showMessage)
{
    @if (message == null)
    {
        <p><em>Loading...</em></p>
    }
    else
    {
        <p>The message is: @message</p>
    }
}

@code 
{
    bool showMessage = false;
    string message;

    public async Task ShowMessage()
    {
        showMessage = true;
        message = await MessageService.GetMessageAsync();
    }
}
```

Components can also define their own events by defining a component parameter of type `EventCallback<TValue>`. Event callbacks support all the variations of DOM UI event handlers: optional args, sync or async, method groups or lambda expressions.

```razor
<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="OnClick">Click me!</button>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public EventCallback<MouseEventArgs> OnClick { get; set; }
}
```

## Data binding

Blazor provides a simple mechanism to bind data from a UI component to the component's state. This approach differs from the features in ASP.NET Web Forms for binding data from data sources to UI controls. We'll cover handling data from different data sources in the [Dealing with data](data.md) section.

> To create a two-way data binding from a UI component to some the component's state, use the `@bind` directive attribute. In the example below, the value of the check box is bound to the `isChecked` field.

Reviewer: Something is off in this first sentence. Is there a word missing between "some" and "the"?

}
```

```razor
@inject AppState AppState

<p>App message: @AppState.Message</p>

@code {
    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        AppState.OnChange += StateHasChanged
    }
}
```

## Component lifecycle

The ASP.NET Web Forms framework has well-defined lifecycle methods for modules, pages, and controls. Blazor components also have a well-defined lifecycle. A component's lifecycle can be used to initialize component state and implement advanced component behaviors. 

All of Blazor's component lifecycle methods have both synchronous and asynchronous versions. This is important because component rendering is synchronous. You can't run asynchronous logic as part of the component rendering. All asynchronous logic must execute as part of an `async` lifecycle method.

### OnInitialized

The `OnInitialized` and `OnInitializedAsync` methods are used to initialize the component. A component is typically initialized after it's first rendered. After a component is initialized, it may be rendered multiple times before it's eventually disposed. The `OnInitialized` method is similar to the `Page_Load` event in ASP.NET Web Forms pages and controls.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csharp
```

protected override void OnInitialized() { ... }
protected override Task OnInitializedAsync() { ... }
```

### OnParametersSet

The `OnParametersSet` and `OnParametersSetAsync` methods are called when a component has received parameters from its parent and the value are assigned to properties. These methods are executed after component initialization and *each time the component is rendered*.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csharp
```

*Counter.razor*

```razor
@inherits CounterBase

<h1>Counter</h1>

<p>Current count: @currentCount</p>

<button @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>
```

*Counter.razor.cs*

```csharp
public class CounterBase : ComponentBase 
{
    protected int currentCount = 0;

    protected void IncrementCount()
    {
        currentCount++;
    }
}
```

The visibility of the component's members in the base class must be `protected` or `public` to be visible to the component class.

## Additional resources

> The preceding isn't an exhaustive treatment of all aspects of Blazor components. For more information on how to [Create and use ASP.NET Core Razor components](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/components), see the Blazor documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding isn't an exhaustive treatment of all aspects of Blazor components. For more information on how to [Create and use ASP.NET Core Razor components](/aspnet/core/blazor/components), see the Blazor documentation.
```
